---
layout: post
title: Impasse
excerpt: "A Phase in every developer's life"
tags: [colleague, team, impasse, deadlock]
comments: true
language: python
image:
    feature: #asdf
    credit: #asdf
    credtlink: #asdf
---

I just completed one year at [shopsocially](shopsocially.com). After completing 3 years in two start-up companies,
The career has been progressing in satisfactory way. Parents are happy as I am getting decent wage to live comfortably in Metro city.
But I ain't happy with current situation. People think that I enjoy better standards of living and all as I get so called "freedom".
But I just get feeling worse than usual. *A SENSE OF NO ACHIVEMENT*. Like living obscure life without quality goals.
I think I reached an impasse in life at age of 25. I have to overcome on it.

People of my age prefer to live decent life and follow eat-work-sleep routine. They don't have any outward goal.
They just bluff on every thing and do showing off. They just show how they are superior in terms of knowledge.
At the end, They settle down either in their conventional business or have enough money through dowry / parents to set the business. 

Other like me coming from middle class of rural area get a job in booming IT industry. Most of your friends are either pursing Master in United states or working in top companies like Amazon, Apple in abroad. You always think as "what the hell am I doing with my life whenever you see their photos on social medias".



>"If you think the same, People like me have reached in an impasse in life".

* We can't purse higher studies due to own problems.
* We can't switch to other cities for good opportunities due to own problems.

You start thinking negatively and got an impasse."

#### So We work really hard to break this impasse. 
  * You get strong command on programming languages, version controls and various databases.
  * You start contribution to open source projects.
  * You learn, design and explore new tools to enhance peformance.
  * You think you're rocking and achieved as expected.

You think that you just broke the impasse. 
But wait.

### Sometimes your colleagues appreciate your efforts.

* They do welcome your ideas.
* They give credit to your work.
* They discuss, ask progress about your task.
* They encourage you to design, set standard workflows for team.
* They give you opportunity to lead and explore new things.
* They want you to participate in various code reviews and discussions.
* They point out your mistake at right time and give suggestions too.
* They also accept their mistakes although you're JUNIOR.

### Sometimes egostic colleagues don't appreciate your efforts.

  * They never accept your suggestion.
  * They never give credit to your work. They always try to find out loop-holes in your work.
  * They just assign tasks and expect you to complete it without knowing their expectation.
  * They eliminate whatever standard set by you because they have more "experience" than YOU.
  * They start to impose their standards and use it as weapon. If you argue, They create it as a big issue.
  * They don't discuss enhancements with you although you already designed / worked on it.
  * They do chat on what's app / facebook and tell you "BUSY" if you request for review.
  * They don't invite you for code reviews as you're considered as "junior".
  * They laugh on your code during code reviews. Yeah that's right.


>Again you get screwed up and you start thinking negatively about yourself.

* You don't want to learn new things as you lost your confidence.
* You just do wait and watch as your "seniors" don't listen you.
* You bring yourself in deadlock where you just think about yourself.
* You like the work but you don't want to work on it due to above factors.

>And you have reached an impasse.

 * What is next in life as you don't want to work here?. 
 * Where should I take my career as no one is listening to me here?

You can get some other jobs by switching company but what?
Will you able to break impasse there?

### Break the impasse.
 
  * Don't critize them. 
  * Don't argue with them.
  * It clealy indicates that you're lacking professionalism. Improve on it.
  * Ignore them if they try to mock you using so called "standard".
  * Don't try to correct them even if they're discussing wrong things
  * Let them use wrong worflow Because they're not going to learn anything.
  * Improve your leadership skills
  
  
Alway Learn new thing everyday. At the end, your knowledge and skill sets are important.
So yeah, see you on Github!! #PlayBold

